Here's the list of stuff. So what do you think about
the topics I mentioned?
What was this item here? Killer asteroids and
comets. Oh, yes, that's right. Killer asteroids
and comets. Well, I'm just a bystander in all those
subjects. I'm just a professional who can... But
you're a taxpayer, and you know something about
the subject. Well, I'm a taxpayer in that sense,
and I know something about the subject. As a
trained professional, a physics person,
astronomy person, computing person, I'm
certainly highly entitled to have an opinion, an
informed opinion. My own opinion is that the
current budget level applied into the SETI,
which... what is it, 12 million a year or
something, 15 million a year, is about right. So I
personally, were I sitting on a congressional
committee, I would authorize the current efforts
at roughly the current levels within factor of
two. I mean, I think maybe 20 million is an
appropriate number instead of 10. But, yeah,
right in that ballpark. I wouldn't put 100 million
into it. I wouldn't put a billion into it yet, not
now. In fact, my own private odds calculation is
it's going to fail. It's not going to find
anything. But it's a part of our ancient
tradition, the search tradition, the research
tradition. It's a part of an ultimate human
question. And one of our goals as astronomers is to
face up to these ultimate questions that are
outside the mundane existence that we... Those
words that I'm using there sound almost
religious, and I don't think that's an accident.
One of the reasons to gravitate to cosmology, for
example, is the facing up to the ultimate
cosmogonical questions, etiology and
eschatology of all of existence, the where did we
come from questions, the ultimate...
existential questions. Well, SETI research is
also in the category of ultimate existential
questions. And that is, I think, the real
justification for doing it. And whether or not it
succeeds is sort of irrelevant. The doing of it is
what's really important. So my reaction is about
the current funding level is about right. And it
should be carried on probably forever. It should
be acknowledged to be one of those things that
human beings ought to be doing just because it's an
ultimate ideological question. Now, killer
asteroids are in a different category. That's a
straightforward, practical question. No
philosophy, no religiosity. It's what's the odds
they're going to hit us. And it's also a kind of
geological question because geologists would
like to know how much has the Earth been pounded
into smithereens. and 65 million years ago kind of
questions.
So I think that's perfectly reasonable to put
money into, and probably the current funding
levels are about right. Other solar systems.
Well, that's... If you're into planetary
science, you'd sure like to know just what are
the... How unusual is our planetary system?
Being... or we say Copernicans philosophically.
We've been trained to think that we shouldn't
really be in a unique preferred position. But it's
hard to tell when you only have one attitude.
That's right. Well, once again, you see, my own
attitudes are really much broader than the narrow
professional interests that I officially did.
But I have to say that while I was a grad student, I
hadn't really developed my own philosophical
attitudes about these matters. I couldn't have
expressed such opinions very well in those days.
But over the last 25 years or so, I gradually, since
I moved to a lot of institutions, read a lot of
journals, thought about it a lot, I developed a
broader view of what is science, what is
astronomy, and why are we doing it. What do you
think astronomy's position is today? I mean, are
we at a plateau? Are we sinking or what? These are
the glory days of astronomy. We are lucky to be in
this generation. We are living through the golden
years of astronomy. I would say these years
correspond logically to being a physicist in the
20s, being a physicist in the 30s. This is sort of
like 1930 for physics. Those were incredible
years when all kinds of new instruments came
online. You just think about it. In the 30s, there
was Lawrence building cyclotrons. Right here,
yes. Yeah, right here, yes. And
you had just finished up Rutherford, you know, and
you were right in the midst of trying to understand
quantum mechanics. Well, right now, we are
covering the entire frequency spectrum of
photons that come to us from the universe here in
this meeting of the AAS. We have every kind of
photon that gets to us from the universe is being
discussed in the oral sessions or in the poster
papers, and that's incredible. When I was a grad
student, when I entered graduate school in 1964,
this was absolutely not true. Radios... And radio
was puny. It was pitiful. Radio was meter
wavelength, or just getting in the centimeter
wavelength. Not only that, but the
interferometers could only tell you about fringe
visibilities. They couldn't tell you about a
picture of the sky. Now, 10 years ago, we had the
VLA, and we could see the sky at one arc second
resolution. That was incredible. When I was a grad
student, you hadn't yet taken X-ray astronomy
seriously. So during my professional career,
X-ray astronomy has gone from nothing to being a
booming big deal. Likewise, when I was a grad
student, infrared detectors were junk. You could
hardly detect anything with them. I mean, they
were lucky to detect the brightest sources in the
solar system, practically. It was really hard
work. By the time I... Well, by now, of course, we
have infrared cameras that are almost as good as
the optical cameras. You know, it can go on and on
and on. We've got gamma rays. We've got a gamma ray
observatory flying today. We have gamma ray
bursters, which were unknown. Of course, when I
entered grad school, pulsars hadn't been
discovered. And Martin Schmidt had only
recognized 3C273 one year before. So you just
think about all the revolutionary things that
have happened in the last 25 years, and you think
about the last decade from NASA's point of view.
NASA's contribution of the great observatories,
I think, is a heroic thing. We're not alone in this.
The other cultures of the world, the Europeans,
Japanese, the Russians, have all been a part of it.
So the whole frequency spectrum, from the highest
frequencies to the lowest, is now wide open to
astronomy. There is essentially no phenomenon in
the universe that can hide from us now. There were
things in the universe that were hidden from us 25
years ago. Star formation. Yeah, well, star
formation, planetary systems. Let's end this
with one particular question. What's your
favorite Harlan Smith story?
Hard to choose.
Boy, do I have Harlan Smith stories? I don't know.
For me, I don't know that I'm good at coming up with
an answer to that kind of question. I was amazed at
his daring, his ability to promote and get money
for his projects. He had a profound influence on
me. I'm pretty sure that I got into his department
because of his decision. I think he was the one who,
in some sense, chose me. I think he hewed me as one of
his proteges. There was a meeting in Europe about
five years ago, it was only a couple of years before
he died, at which he was speaking. I've forgotten
what his topic was about. I think it may have been
computer controlled telescopes and instruments
and information handling or something. He was
kind of brought in to give an overview of current of
search as seen by an observatory director. And he
saw me in the crowd. And he was saying
extraordinarily complimentary things about me
and really embarrassed me. And yet, in fact, I was
so embarrassed I almost couldn't take it
afterwards. I could hardly talk to him about it
afterwards. And yet, I also realized when I
thought about it later on that this was almost
quintessential Harlan, that he had picked people
and he had backed them very thoroughly. and that he
really believed in them even in the face of what
most people, objective observers, would have
said contrary evidence, that Harlan was a
promoter not just of projects but of people. Is
that a Harlan story? It's not in your style, Ron.
It's a Harlan story. It is a Harlan story. I've
gotten similar stories from other people. Right.
And I'm sure that this led to inspiring a fierce
loyalty in some people In me, it inspired a great
respect for him as a leadership person. And that
respect grew in my mind over the years as I had
experience in other environments and
organizations, and I understood the effect that
one person could have, a leadership person, and
that it was more than just promoting money or being
a leadership person technically, that almost
more important was the influence on people. that I
have grown in my opinion that people matter more
than most other things. That was something when I
was a young student, I believed science was all
logical and mathematical and people weren't the
matter. It was all technology and theory and all
that. And being much older and much wiser now, I
have a rather different view of the world. And I'm
much more interested in people. I've got to ask you
this, although it probably won't appear in the
book. What was your first impression when you
first saw Harlan, the observatory director? Oh,
my, the flat top. He didn't look like your idea of an
observatory director, did he? No. He didn't act
like one either. He wore, as I recall, he generally
had a bolo tie like yours, your Texas bolo tie that
you have there. Yes, he went in for things like
that. So he was a kind of Texas promoter type, but he
was really vigorous kind of person. He was
trusting forward, always trying to persuade
people to go along with the ideas and to join the
crowd and all that. I would remark that I had one
class from him. I don't even remember what the
title of the class was in which he lectured. He
lectured, and he was on stellar theory. I remember
one particular lecture he gave on how stars work.
And this wasn't really the official astrophysics
class, stellar astrophysics class, which was
taught by a different professor. But it was a kind
of one-hour overview of how stars work as
machines, essentially. And he tried to reduce
everything to the simplest possible one line
formula with a few constants. And it was a big sort
of power and units type, getting the exponents
right and understanding why it's a square and not a
cube and getting the units right. And get your
picture about what is it that matters in making
stars work as engines. And I thought it was very
well done.